hey everybody its Jason blah here and
today I wanted to share something with
you guys that I found amusing but still
informative that was posted by dr. Mike
Yisrael and remember this is coming from
someone who actually does have a PhD in
biomechanics as a professor of edges is
as well as competitive athlete
bodybuilder and coach somebody who has
all the credentials in the world but
there are four reasons for a person to
not touch their chest when doing some
sort of barbell overhead press because
we see a lot of guys who short rep these
number one you're hurt or injured you
have some sort of damage to your
shoulders or to your body they prevent
you physically from doing so number two
you're not mobile enough or flexible
enough to do so and if you aren't then
there's a problem with your overall
fitness for you guys Fitness this
community seems to misunderstand I think
Fitness is about being really lean and
ripped that's not necessarily true
Fitness has to do with your overall
function and health so if you're fit
you're flexible mobile strong fast have
good endurance and good blood markers on
your blood work so that you're healthy
ah so that's what fit actually means
that if you can't do something as simple
as touch a barbell to your chest odds
are your overall flexibility and
mobility or suffering and therefore
you're not truly fit number three you're
just too big to do so and guys here
weighing 200 220 pounds really can't use
that excuse what we mean too big to do
so he's talking about guys like Phil
Heath guys like Ronnie Coleman those
guys are probably too big in many cases
to touch their chests with a barbell or
than any sort of overhead press but even
some of those guys can still do it so
there are exceptions even to that rule
and number four you're just being a
little bitch who wants to try to use big
boy weight but you haven't put in your
dues in the time to be strong enough to
actually do so now the latter is an
important point because here's what it
comes down to any sort of barbell
overhead presses we have seen throughout
the decades and the generations of
lifters is a tremendous upper-body size
and strength builder it's not
necessarily just a shoulder exercise is
an exercise for your entire upper body
with most of the focus being upon your
your shoulder girdle your triceps and
your upper chest and particularly things
like the upper chest
do not get worked as much and a lot of
the support muscles that could really
develop and get bigger and stronger and
the overhead press do not get worked to
the same degree if you skip the bottom
of the range of motion the other thing
to consider there is from the injury
side of it is that if you're only doing
partials you're stopping at your ears or
your nose or your 10 before you come up
each time you are over time training
yourself to you only use the weight
through the part of the range of motion
you're going to get weaker not develop
strength usually beyond about 15 degrees
from where you stopped you're not going
to develop any strength through there
and so you're not only tightening up all
of that the connective tissue in the
range of motion you're actually not
going to strength you there so if
something ever happens in your spotters
start messing up or they'd miss
something or you're not pressing all
pans and remember pressing all pens
overtime beats up your joints also so
what's going to happen is that your
predisposing yourself to injury there if
something goes wrong because you're
using a weight that's maybe 20% heavier
than you're actually capable of lifting
something goes wrong the weight gets
pushed down you're too tight from not
training the full range of motion and no
strength through it and you end up
snapping something and then you go back
to point number one of being one of the
guys he's too injured to do it that's
oftentimes how the guys get injured who
can't do it anymore they messed up at
some point what you're going to find
though is that with any exercise what
people forget is that it's not always
about how much weight you move it's how
far more range of motion up while you
move it that determines a lot of your
development and strength and your
function and so if you are using a
heavier weight at the expense of full
range of motion you're not always
getting the development and strength and
function that you should be getting from
an exercise and the overhead press is
definitely one of those and the thing to
remember if you want to actually get
just focus upon the the top part of
movement more while maintaining the
strength and the mobility at the bottom
that turned it into an explosive power
movement with using a heavier weight
that you can use strictly then that's
where the push press comes in the push
press shines at that it does everything
that you would want to do from doing the
partial overhead press but it still
allows you to develop the strength and
the mobility through the full range of
motion while
still overloading the top part of the
movement and you're going to get a lot
better results from doing a push press
and you're going to get from doing these
partials with the overhead press so yeah
there's no real reason for people to be
doing partials on this exercise do the
full range of motion and if you want to
focus more upon overloading the top part
that's where the push press really
shines because it removes the other
negatives from doing the partial are you
guys that's really all I have to say on
that today I hope it's been informative
and I will talk to you guys next time